CS 3110 Final Project: Heroes of OCamlot

Authors:
Ritwik Dan rd389
Elijah Wilt ew356
Daniel Casey dkc52

Our project has been tested to compile and run with OCaml version 4.03.0 and
Yojson version 1.3.2.  From the source code directory, the following commands
can be run: "make", "make clean", and "make play".

Running "make" or "make play" will compile the game engine into the file
"main.byte"; "make play" will also launch the game automatically.   Running
"make clean" will delete "main.byte" and other files generated by the build
system.

When the game is launched, a main menu will be displayed, from which there are 3
available commands:

1 - Player vs Player Game
2 - Player vs AI Game
3 - Quit

If a command other than those specified above is given, you will be prompted
to try again with a valid command.

In both of the two possible game modes, you will be prompted to specify a .json
file for each player.  These must be valid .json files in the same directory as
main.ml, and they must follow the schema defined in schema.json.  We've provided
two sample decks, "basic.json" and "cs_deck.json", to be used for grading, but
feel free to make your own decks to play with!

********************************************************************************
                        HEROES OF OCAMLOT GAME RULES
********************************************************************************

The objective of the game is to bring your opponent's health to 0.

At the start of each game, both players are given 30 health points, and draw 3
cards from their deck.  Players alternate taking turns playing cards and
attacking with "minions" and your "hero" (yourself).

At the start of each turn, the player draws a card if their deck is not empty,
and their mana total is refreshed to whatever the turn number is, up to a cap of
10.

All cards have a mana-cost associated with them, which is reduced from your mana
total when the card is played.  Cards fall under one of three classes: Minion,
Spell, and Weapon.

Minion cards summon a minion to the "board" with a set starting attack and
health, in addition to zero or more bonus effects. Possble bonus effects for
minions are: add to your hero's attack damage, heal your hero, or add to your
hero's armor total.

Spell cards are one-time use, and effect the board in one of three ways: heal a
target, damage a target, or add to your mana total.

Weapon cards equip a weapon to your hero, which provides attack damage to your
hero for a set number of turns.

In the pre-phase of a turn, the player may play cards rom their hand, so long as
they have the mana available to do so.  Once a player is done playing cards,
they can end their pre-phase and start their attack-phase.

At the start of each attack-phase, all bonuses from your minions in play are
applied to your hero (heal, attack, or armor).  Next, the player is prompted to
provide a target for each of their minions in play, as well as the hero itself
if it has any attack damage.

NOTE: The following game-specific notation is used to display a minion's current 
health and attack:
"Attack/HP" where Attack and HP are ints, followed by the name of the corresponding
minion.

When one of your characters attacks a target, which can be any of the opponent's
minions on the board or your opponent themselves (player 1 and player 2 targeted
by typing P1 and P2 respectively), the target is dealt damage equal to the
attacking character's attack damage.

When a player is attacked, armor acts as a sort of shield for their health, so
that a player's armor must be brought to 0 before their health can decrease.
Minions stay on the board until their health is brought to 0, either by spells
or being attacked by other characters.

Once all of the player's characters have attacked, their turn ends and they may
either pass the computer to their opponent or watch as the AI takes its turn,
depending on which game mode they're playing.

We hope you enjoy playing!
